---
date: 2018-06-23
category: week6
---

#### Sixth Week: Admin Permissions, Packaging, and World Map
Work this week consisted of finishing admin permissions, opening a PR for changing the build.gradle file and
some of the logic for KeyStores, and experimenting with adding a world map resource for viewing the game within
the frontend.

[Backend for Admin Permissions](https://github.com/MovingBlocks/FacadeServer/pull/17){:.gh-pr} \\
This week consisted of a bit more refactoring to better encapsulate the admin permission system with existing classes.
All of the bugs easily found through testing were fixed as well.

[Frontend for Admin Permissions](https://github.com/MovingBlocks/FacadeServer-frontend/pull/7){:.gh-pr} \\
No new work was done on this PR, but it was merged this week.

[Modifying Gradle and ServerMain for Packaging](https://github.com/MovingBlocks/FacadeServer/pull/18){:.gh-pr} \\
The changes in this PR modify the jar created with gradle (which is the one that Jenkins hosts and can also be
downloaded as a dependency). ServerMain was changed to accommodate how the KeyStore file used in https connections
cannot be used because it is in the jar file for Omega distributions. There are also three new launch scripts,
one for each major operating system. Only the Windows script has been tested, but the other ones might work.

As for next week, the focus should be on finishing up packaging and adding a resource that gives information
on the game world. The only thing I still need to figure out is how to copy just the launch scripts from the
FacadeServer jar into the omega distribution. This should be relatively simple, only requiring something along
the lines of this:

```
if (project.hasProperty('useFacadeServer') && project.property('useFacadeServer') == "true") {
           from configurations.facades
           include "run_facade_server_windows.bat"
           include "run_facade_server_mac.command"
           include "run_facade_server_linux.sh"
           into ""
       }
```

As for the world map, the original goal was to use the [AWT Facade](https://github.com/MovingBlocks/FacadeAWT)
to display the world by connecting like any other client would. I originally intended to somehow get the AWT
facade as a whole into the web interface using technologies like [GWT](http://www.gwtproject.org/) or
[VertxUI](https://github.com/nielsbaloe/vertxui). However, after a bit of testing, I found out that it might
just be easier to make a custom system using a resource that returns information on the world, then using that
information to display something on the frontend. The AWT Facade in its current state needs some fixing up to be
viable for this task, but the amount of work needed for that might exceed the amount of work for making a new system.

I plan on adding a resource that returns information on some blocks in the world, most importantly the color
of the blocks, the location of the blocks, and the display name of the blocks. The last two are easy to do,
but finding the color has proven to be fairly difficult. Once all the data in the backend has been collected,
it will be trivial to serialize it for the REST API. There will, of course, be challenges in this approach.
I still need to figure out how to load the blocks before trying to get them, otherwise they appear as unloaded.
There will also surely be other problems that I cannot think of at the moment.

On the frontend, the goal is to display a top-down view of the world using the data given by the backend.
There are components like [ImageSVG](https://microsoft.github.io/reactxp/docs/extensions/imagesvg.html) or the regular
[Image](https://microsoft.github.io/reactxp/docs/components/image.html) which could be used to display things like
RGB values.
