---
date: 2018-06-02
category: week3
---

#### Third Week: Autocomplete, Gradle, and Packaging
This week consisted of adding autocomplete to the console on the frontend and a lot of learning gradle to try to package the Server Facade into the omega distribution.

[Code for console autocomplete backend PR](https://github.com/MovingBlocks/FacadeServer/pull/16){:.gh-pr} \\
This PR is very simple and simply adds a GET request to the console resource that gives all commands available to the server. This is needed for the frontend.

[Code for the console autocomplete frontend PR](https://github.com/MovingBlocks/FacadeServer-frontend/pull/4){:.gh-pr} \\
The console autocomplete code is fairly simple, and upon pressing tab in the console command execution box, the console commands cycle through a list of matches.

Packaging has proven to be more difficult than expected. Before this week I had basically zero experience with gradle, so I spent a while learning about it.
Almost all of this week was spent on trying to do the packaging.
I have spent a lot of the time looking at the PC facade gradle build script and the distros.gradle script used to make the Omega distribution.
At the moment, I have managed to get the server facade to run in the Omega distribution, but I did so with some manual manipulation of files,
which needs to be accomplished automatically with gradle.

For next week, I plan to add a frontend for some of the more common console commands.
The commands that deal with permissions for the console, kicking an user, and renaming an user could go into the serverAdmins tab,
which means it could be renamed the user management tab. Another goal for the next week is to control the levels of admin permission on the facade server frontend,
allowing some people to do more or less things. For example, maybe some people should only have the authority to kick users, but not ban users or change games.
