---
date: 2018-07-21
category: week10
---

#### Tenth Week: World Map, Blacklist/Whitelist, Frontend Console
This week was about finishing up the world map resource and getting started on adding blacklist and whitelist
support to the server facade.
\\
[Backend for the World Map](https://github.com/MovingBlocks/FacadeServer/pull/21){:.gh-pr} \\
The only changes this week were for destroying the entity that was created to load the map and adding an admin check
for loading the map. The first was done by getting the entity ref used to load the blocks as a return value, then
destroying it once the loading is done. The admin check 
\\
[Frontend for the World Map](https://github.com/MovingBlocks/FacadeServer-frontend/pull/8){:.gh-pr} \\
No changes, but this was merged.
\\
[Backend for Blacklist and Whitelist](https://github.com/MovingBlocks/FacadeServer/pull/22){:.gh-pr} \\
The only change here was to call `notifyChangedForAllClients()` whenever the blacklist or whitelist was changed. This
makes it so that the frontend will automatically update the blacklist/whitelist state whenever it gets changed.
\\
[Frontend for Blacklist and Whitelist](https://github.com/MovingBlocks/FacadeServer-frontend/pull/9){:.gh-pr} \\
I decided that the previous input prompt didn't make sense with 3 pickers, as it would be too confusing for the user
and too difficult to code. Instead, the prompt now displays the ids of all players online, on the blacklist, and on the
whitelist, along with a text input for the id to modify. The list of players is intended to be copy-pasted from.
However, the prompt does not quite seem to refresh properly. Whenever a player is added to the blacklist or whitelist
from the prompt, it does not update on its own. It does update correctly after any of the buttons are clicked again.
It may be better to just move it from a prompt into a tab, as that would make refreshing easy. Also, in testing this I
found a bug with the blacklist code that I wrote for the engine. If a player is blacklisted and exits the game, then
the server doesn't correctly remove them from the game and they still appear to be connected to the NetworkSystem.
\\
[Make the Frontend Execute Server Commands Only](https://github.com/MovingBlocks/FacadeServer-frontend/pull/10){:.gh-pr} \\
To make the frontend UX better, this PR changes the console to make it so that only commands that run on the server
can be executed. The Console resource's GET method added earlier for the autocomplete was used as a list of acceptable
commands. If a command is entered and it isn't in the list of commands, then it cannot be executed. If the command
entered is `help`, then the help command isn't actually run, instead a help message from the backend resource below
is manually added to the console.
\\
[Resource for Console Help Text](https://github.com/MovingBlocks/FacadeServer/pull/24){:.gh-pr} \\
The frontend needs a way to get the filtered help text, so this PR adds a resource for it. Essentially, this resource
uses a stream to filter commands that don't run on the server using `ConsoleCommand.isRunOnServer()`, then it emulates
the `help()` method in `CoreCommands.java` for each command in the filtered list.
\\
[Add Jopenvr to the classpath](https://github.com/MovingBlocks/FacadeServer/pull/23){:.gh-pr} \\
This small PR adds jopenvr.jar to the server facade's jar classpath. This should make it so that the server facade can
finally run correctly in the frontend.
\\
Next Week, I should be able to finish the blacklist/whitelist implementation on the frontend. It shouldn't take more
than a few hours to do. After that, I plan to write unit tests for all of the new `Resource` classes I added over the
past few months, as well as anything else in the backend that looks like it could use a unit test. At the same time, I
want to work on the stretch goal of being able to access the local files of the server from the frontend and possibly
make them modifiable as well.
