---
date: 2018-07-14
category: week9
---

#### Ninth Week: World Map and Blacklist/Whitelist
This week was about finishing up the world map resource and getting started on adding blacklist and whitelist
support to the server facade.
\\
[Backend for the World Map](https://github.com/MovingBlocks/FacadeServer/pull/21){:.gh-pr} \\
The work done this week made it so that chunks could be loaded from the frontend without having a player in-game.
This was done by creating two components, LocationComponent and RelevanceRegionComponent, and creating an entity with
them that then automatically generates chunks. The LocationComponent is set to the center of the requested map to serve
as the center of where the chunks are loaded, and the RelevanceRegionComponent is set to cover enough chunks so that
there will never be any unloaded chunks. It takes some time for the chunks to be loaded, so `Thread.sleep(1000)` is
called whenever the `WorldProvider` gets an unloaded block. This makes it poll once per second to minimize performance
impact. The only thing left to do for this PR is to look at improving code readability by naming constants and looking
at removing the entity after it serves its purpose to avoid memory leaks.
\\
[Frontend for the World Map](https://github.com/MovingBlocks/FacadeServer-frontend/pull/8){:.gh-pr} \\
Most of the new work here is for UX. The error message on startup was fixed, and the world map input variables now stay
the same after submit is pressed, which is much more intuitive. The y-coordinate input is now only rendered if the
surface checkbox is disabled, as there is no reason to have both at the same time. The layout of the buttons was also
improved.
\\
[Backend for Blacklist and Whitelist](https://github.com/MovingBlocks/FacadeServer/pull/22){:.gh-pr} \\
This backend PR is relatively simple, consisting only of adding a new resource class that is very similar to the
server admins resource. There are actually two different resources created from the class by using an enum.
All the resource really does is check if the resource is a blacklist or whitelist, and then it adds, removes, or gets
the list, depending on the http method.
\\
[Frontend for Blacklist and Whitelist](https://github.com/MovingBlocks/FacadeServer-frontend/pull/9){:.gh-pr} \\
The frontend for the blacklist/whitelist is more complicated, involving adding a new prompt with multiple pickers.
I am not entirely sure if the prompt actually works yet. The prompt gets the online players and the current
blacklist/whitelisted players and allows an admin to add/remove any of the above players from the blacklist/whitelist.
Aside from the prompt, there are some new functions for querying the REST API for the new resources.
\\
For next week, the goal is to finish up blacklist and whitelist support by making the POST and DELETE methods work
correctly. After that is finished, I will work on modifying the console so that only the commands that work on the
server are visible and can be executed. If possible, I plan on modifying what gets displayed by executing the `help`
command, possibly on the frontend. If that gets finished, I will then work on adding more unit tests, starting with
the system resource added in week 2.
